I want to address the theme
“Young Ones—You Are Loved by Jehovah”
and his organization.
But now,
when we say young ones,
to whom are we referring?
As evidence of Jehovah’s love,
some may immediately think
of the animated series
of videos entitled
Become Jehovah’s Friend,
featuring Caleb and Sophia,
and that has indeed been evidence
of Jehovah’s
and the Governing Body’s love
for little children.
We have gotten hundreds of letters
of appreciation for this series
from small children
and their parents,
and even from grandparents.
But what about you teenagers?
You too are still young
when compared to adulthood,
and you are appreciated very much
when you show your respect
and love for Jehovah.
Does the Bible indicate anything
about Jesus’ disposition
as a teenager?
There are comments
about him as an infant.
Also in the book of Luke,
it describes Jesus
as a child of 12 years old.
Let’s look at that account
and determine
if it also includes
any comments
about Jesus’ attitude
as a teenager.
In Luke 2:42
it describes Jesus as a preteen
in saying this,
Luke 2:42:
“And when he was 12 years old,
“they went up
according to the custom of the festival.
“When the days
of the festival were over
“and they were returning,
“the boy Jesus
remained behind in Jerusalem,
and his parents did not notice it.”
So his parents
went looking for him
and finally found him
three days later.
What was Jesus
focused on as a 12-year-old?
He was sitting in the temple
talking with the teachers about Jehovah.
Notice verse 47:
“But all those listening to him
“were in constant amazement
at his understanding
and his answers.”
What a good example
for you children
12 years of age and younger
to talk about Jehovah
with confidence!
But what was Jesus’ attitude
like as a teenager?
Please follow along
in verses 51 and 52:
“Then he [Jesus]
went down with them
“and returned to Nazareth,
and he continued subject to them,”
that is to his parents.
How old was he?
Twelve.
But what comes after 12?
Thirteen.
Notice verse 52:
“And Jesus went on progressing.”
You see, after 12,
he “went on progressing
“in wisdom and in physical growth
and in favor with God and men.”
Evidently, then,
Jesus was an intelligent,
well-balanced teenager.
But who took note
of his progress as a teen?
It said: “God and men.”
Yes, godly children and teenagers
are appreciated by Jehovah
and by spiritual men.
Jehovah and his organization
love all you young ones
who are striving
to do what is right.
But how do we know
that Jehovah loves all of you?
Well, if you have your Bible,
turn to Matthew chapter 19,
and here we see
that Jesus showed
his high regard
for young ones.
So Matthew chapter 19,
notice verses 13 and 14:
“Then young children
were brought to him
“for him to place his hands
on them and offer prayer,
but the disciples
reprimanded them.”
They did not want
the young ones to bother Jesus.
But notice verse 14:
“Jesus, however, said:
“‘Let the young children alone,
“‘and do not try to stop them
from coming to me,
for the Kingdom of the heavens
belongs to such ones.’”
Yes, Jesus welcomed young ones,
and the Bible tells us that Jesus
is the perfect reflection of Jehovah.
So Jesus was imitating
Jehovah’s love for young ones.
After many wise sayings
and performing miracles,
Matthew chapter 21 describes Jesus
riding into Jerusalem
as Jehovah’s anointed one.
Please notice the difference
between some of the adult’s reactions
and that of appreciative young ones.
Matthew 21:15
tells us this:
“When the chief priests
and the scribes
“saw the marvelous things he did
“and the boys
who were shouting in the temple,
“‘Save, we pray, the Son of David!’
they became indignant.”
Who was boldly praising Jesus?
The scripture said that “the boys”
were shouting out praise.
What a contrast those young ones were
to the religious leaders
who were irritated by all of this.
Young people, when you speak up
about Jehovah and Jesus,
they both take notice of you.
They are proud
of your stand for the truth!
But how do you know
that the Governing Body
and the organization loves you?
Well, they have published
many books
and magazine articles
specifically for young ones.
In addition to all
of the printed material, there are
the Become Jehovah’s Friend videos
for children.
But, you teenagers,
have you been keeping up
with all of the information
specifically for you
on jw.org?
There are dozens of printed articles
on an array of subjects
that interest those of your age.
In so many ways, Jehovah
and his organization show their love
and appreciation
for all you dear young ones.
What can you young ones
do in return?
You may say, ‘I go to all the meetings
and out in service.’
Well, that is wonderful.
Some of you may have even joined
the Theocratic Ministry School already,
and you help clean
and maintain the Kingdom Hall.
We warmly commend you
for your good works.
But if you think about it,
even more important
is having a good personal relationship
with Jehovah.
In Luke 10:27 it says:
“You must love Jehovah your God
“with your whole heart
and with your whole soul
and with your whole strength
and with your whole mind.”
To love Jehovah
with your whole heart
means that you have
a good personal relationship with him.
That involves
more than just doing good things.
It involves praying to him
about what is in your heart.
Tell him everything you love
and whatever you fear.
You can tell Jehovah
very personal things;
he is not going
to tell anyone else.
But he can give you
the strength and wisdom
to handle matters
for the best possible outcome.
Set up your own
personal Bible study program
in addition
to Family Worship evening.
This is how Jehovah
communicates back to you,
and your relationship with him
will be strengthened.
You are the next generation
of adults in Jehovah’s organization.
We continue to need
spiritually qualified ones
to get Jehovah’s work done.
A good relationship with Jehovah
as a youth sets you up
for the best way of life
as a responsible adult.
Along the way, though,
you will face pressure
from Satan’s system
that can test your faith.
But by loving Jehovah
with your whole heart,
you can get through
any test you may encounter,
and I mean any test
that you may encounter!